pwd - present working directory
cd ../.. - change directory from current to root dir
cd ~ - change directory from current to home dir
cd .. - changing directory from current dir to its immediate parent dir
cd nootan - changing current dir to nootan dir
ls : listing files and directories
ls -l : listing files and directories with information
ls -a : list hidden files and directories also
ls -R : list files and directories with its subfiles and subdirectories
ls -t : list files and directories into sorted order according to the last modification timestamp
mkdir - creating directory
rmdir - removing directory (only if dir is empty)
who - lists users logged in into the system with terminal name and login date and time
who -q - no. of users
who -m - terminal 
which - location path of the particular command
man - manual pages


Exercise 

refer general commands available in this ppt
and complete the exc :

1. manual page for cat command

2. create directory mydir

3. create four directories under mydir : mydir1, mydir2, mydir3, mydir4

4. create file under mydir1 = hello.txt 

	cat > hello.txt

	<enter some sentences>

	ctrl+z

5. remove directories mydir3 and mydir4

6. remove directory mydir1

7. go to home directory

8. go to root directory

9. again open terminal and print the information about the users who logged in 

10. print the location of the grep command

11. list the files and directories available in the home dir

12. list the files and directories available in the root dir

13. list the files,directories and subdirectories available in the home dir

14. list the files and directories with its information

15. go to mydir1 and then use the command cd ..


Activity time: 10 minutes
–Use General Purpose and File Manipulation Commands
–
•Instructions:
–Create a file named TestFileCommandwith at least ten lines and perform the following tasks on the file:
•Rename the file TestFileCommandto cmdTest.
•Change the permissions of the file for following:
–User – read, write, and execute
–Group – read
–Others – read and execute
•List the first three lines of the file.
•List all the lines after line four.
•Create a soft link to the file cmdTestwith name cmdTestLn.